Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we are going to implement the forum validation functionality.
All right.
So what are we to do as before going into the JS file?
I need to tell you what it is that we are going to grab.
All right.
So first things first.
We are going to select only two things.
We're going to select the input which has a type of text and the input which has a type of password.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to say const we have done this like a lot, so I'm not going
to really hang on to them a lot, talk about them a lot.
So I'm going to say document query selector and we are going to selected by the I.D., which for the
user name is username and for the password is going to be password.
So it's going to be password.
Now this is going to be our.
OK, so this is the user name input and the password input.
Next thing is, I want to create my regular expression as well.
And this regular I'm just going to call it like a password validator.
I'm going to call a password or forum validator for them.
Just call it form input validator.
Now, this regular expression resembles a lot the I think it was the second case that we talked about
in our regular expressions chapter.
But there is there are actually two differences here.
I just wanted to change it up again a little bit.
All right.
And I don't want to create, like a super complicated regex to confuse you and to confuse myself as
well, because these are these tend to get really, really difficult.
So what we are going to do is first we are going to insert a carrot sound.
The carrot sound says that whatever comes comes after it should be at the start of that Inforum input.
And then what I'm going to do is I'm going to create a positive lookahead.
And what it is that we are looking for.
So what do we want?
We want to grab all nine digit, not all nine digit characters.
So what the user has to insert first is going to be nine digit characters, hence the capital.
And how many occurrences of that one?
We want at least eight occurrences of that.
So we want at least eight characters, which are specifically nine digits.
Right.
So this lookahead has done this.
Now, these are cultural groups.
The first cultural group is done now into the second one.
They're going to create another positive look ahead.
And in this case, what do we want to do is after all, the non digits are done after on nine digits
are done, what do we want to do?
We want to grab zero or more occurrences.
So I'm just going to put in the star of the digits.
All right.
And those should be at least two.
So we need at least two digits.
So what are the requirements?
The requirements for the password are we want the first eight characters to be non digits.
And when those eight characters are done, we want at least to two digits.
So for this to work.
Right.
And that's it.
That's our form input validator, which is actually the regex.
So what I'm going to do is now let's grab our user input and I'm going to say our development center.
And because this is a form input, we are just going to listen for an input.
This event is going to fire whenever the user types, any character, anything is typed.
Each time the key is pressed and something is typed, this event is going to fire and we are going to
call validate and I'm going to do the same thing for our password input.
Because I don't want to create two different functions, I just want to do it in one function, so this
function is going to be very, very, very simple.
So let's create that function.
Let's call it validate it.
Let's grab the event object.
So first off, what what we need to do is we need to find out where it is that we are right.
Where where is it that the user is typing?
So let's grab the target.
So in this case, let's make this bigger and let's make this smaller.
We don't really like we don't really need big screens.
I'm going to zoom out a bit and I'm going to say inspect.
So it's there.
Let's put it on the bottom.
Let's bring it up until here.
Let's go to console.
So we do have this message that I need to delete, what I'm going to do is I'm just going to add an
autocomplete there and that message is going to go away.
So why do we have here?
So if I click in here and if I type A, what do we get?
So we get an event fire.
So the event is going to fire whenever the user types something, the data is a.
So how do we know where the user has stout?
First off, we need to grab where the user has typed because we have different since we have different
requirements for each of the inputs for the user name, we don't have any projects, but for the password
we have a form input validator that we want to test it.
So that that's why we need to find out, so usually we go into Target, you could go into path, but
target is easier.
So if we go to Target now, this username has an I.D. of username.
So let's go ahead and let's find that that ID and class and Pittsfield.
I'm just going to remove this name because I don't need it.
That's extra information right here.
Let's remove it and I'm just going to type in, for example, queue we we get our event.
So let's come here, let's go into Target so we know that this username has an idea of user name.
Right.
And the password has an idea of password.
So if I come down here, let's go to I you can see that inside the eye we get the username.
So if I were to say a target dot IED and for example, if I do.
Q We are going to get username and if I do, for example, A, we are going to get password.
So now we have successfully mapped where the user is going to type and the rest is very simple.
We are going to implement an IF statement, so we are going to say the target that ID equals password.
First off, let's do the user name, that's easier if it is user name.
What do we want to do?
We want to check for the length when the length is either when the length is greater than three.
We want to add this class to it.
This this class, this, this color of skin.
Otherwise, if it is three or less than that, we want to add this class which says color of tomato.
So let's implement that.
So we are going to do another if statement in here.
This is going to be an effort statement.
We are going to say if the target if either target dot value, dot length is greater than three, do
what we want to grab either target.
I could have probably saved it inside a variable.
We could save it inside a variable, but I'm not going to do it.
So we know that the target is where we have clicked.
If the target is has greater than three characters, we want to grab the class list because we want
to add a class to it.
What does that class validate?
Sorry, sorry, valid, valid.
Let's check it out, it's valid and invalid, so if it is greater than three, we want to add this class
and in case it has a class of invalid, we want to remove it.
So class list, dot remove.
Remove.
Invalid, so if it has that clause, if it has a class of if it is more than three characters at this
class and remove this class, basically we are going to reverse this in here.
And the says so.
The House says if it is equal to three or less than that in any other scenario, what is that?
Any other scenario when the length is three or less than that?
We want to basically reverse this.
So we want to add the invalid class and remove the valid clause.
Check it out.
So if I type A, that's one character.
W, that's two characters.
Yes, that's three characters, and if I say, yes, we are going to get we are going to see that it
is green.
Awesome.
All right.
So this one is done.
The next one, which is the password is really simple.
So I'm just going to come down here and I'm going to say F Iida target dot IED one, a target.
That IED equals password.
What do we want to do now when one it was user name, we had a different set, but when it is password,
we want to do a different thing.
We want to test that input's value against our regular expression.
So what I'm going to do is we are going to Grabau form input validator and we are going to say test.
What do we want to test it against?
We want to test it against either target value.
So whatever value that the password has, which is typed inside the password, we are going to test
it against that, against this form and put validator.
And what do we want to do then if if it is tested positive?
OK, if the test is positive, it means that the result is the the input has tested true.
It actually returns a true or false.
So if it is if it if it returns true, what do we want to do?
We basically want to add this class, we want to add the valid class and we want to remove the invalid
class if it has that.
And in case it doesn't pass the test, in case the result is a false boolean expression, what do we
want to do?
We want to do this.
We want to remove the valid class and we want to add and add the invalid class.
So let's save it.
So if I come, come there.
And if I type it there and you know what is either target that value, I want to do something else in
here as well, because this is password.
It doesn't matter what I type in here, you cannot see it.
I want to grab that input value as well.
So what I'm going to do is we are going to grab this and I'm going I'm just going to cancel log.
And of course, we are going to remove it later.
I just want to show you if that test actually works.
So now if I add for example, cu w I don't know, like let's say let's say some here and now let's check
it out.
So we need to provide eight non digits.
So this is how do I write this.
I'm going to right pass, not pass word, I'm going to write Java, you can see it's Java and then I'm
going to say script.
So the last thing you can see that this event is fired each time a letter is input has been input.
And finally, what do we get?
We get JavaScript.
And clearly JavaScript has more than eight, nine digit characters inside of it.
So now if I type one, we can see JavaScript one.
I'm going to zoom in.
This is zoomed out, really out.
So I'm going to type one.
And what I type to it is going to turn green.
Why is that?
Because at first we have eight, nine digit characters.
This is at least we need to get eight because this is a quantity identifier.
And it says that we need to get more than either this or more than that.
So and so we get like four here, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10.
So more than eight, of course.
And then it has to be followed by two digits.
It doesn't matter if you add, for example, Seer says it is going to be green XHTML, it is going to
be green and it's going to be 999 green.
It doesn't matter.
That is the initial scenario.
If the user wants to add more than the user is free to do that.
Right.
So with this, our application comes to an end.
So I'm just going to come in this one out.
And now if I say awesome, it works.
And if I say a w e e one, two, it doesn't work because Assam has seven characters and I'm going to
say a WTS OCR awesomer one, two, and it works.
So that's it for this lecture and for this chapter.
See you guys in the next one.